So we have a question about
updating the cache or how to.
Or if we should check if
the cache is updated.
And this is a big topic,
the cache updated.
Because the first problem that we have,
because we are serving from the cache,
some of you are realizing
that we may have a problem.
Because we are always serving
from an old version of the file.
The file that we register when
we install the service worker,
that maybe it was a year ago.
So the problem,
the challenge that we have here,
is that there is no way
in the HTTP protocol,
or simple way, to know which
assets were changed server side.
But we don't have a way to that.
So, we need to define our own algorithm,
to detect or
to know that the file has been
updated in the server, so
we can update that client side.
There are a couple of solutions and
best practices, and
we're going to see some,okay?
But that's the first response.
Or the fourth point is that,
yeah, it depends, okay?
And it's not so simple.
But before I tell you,
moving on on that part,
here is a part we're
actually following the code.
Take some time.
So that's why I want to show out
the snippets that I have here.
It's not a big deal.
But in case you want to copy and
paste, or something like that,
it will be better to follow this.
For example,
here I have the cache first strategy.
Okay, so it's similar to the one that I
have, but without that fake URL designing
some noise,
in case we want to understand the code.
So, I'm going to replace this with this
snippet that is just a simple version of
that, okay?
So, we are actually matching
the request to see if it's there.
If we do have a response, we return that.
If not, we return a fetch.
So it's the same code.
And we are returning these
to respond with, actually.
Okay, so this is cash first.
So, let's write this algorithm first,
and then we move to another one.
So I'm going to refresh first.
Everything is okay.
Everything seems fine.
Yep, now I will try offline.
So, now is the time where we're going to
cross fingers with offline clicked, and
I'm going to reload.
if I reload, now, my PWA works.
It is still working while offline.
If you don't believe this is true,
we can also turn off the server.
So now, we don't have the server,
and I refresh.
Now, I only need update and reload.
But I need offline.
I refresh, and the app is there.
So we are offline,
we are officially offline.
Okay, just because I'm doing this.
So now, our app is offline capable.
So if we go to manifest, now we can
see we do not have any warnings.
Which means,
now it's officially installable as a PWA.
So now on desktop,
I can go to the menu, and
I can see install Codepad Masters,
the best PWA in town.
I can click there,
I can install the app, and
now I have a real PWA
running on my desktop.
And it also works offline.
But we are still missing one piece.
If I add some node here,
and then I refresh,
I'm loosing that content.
And to be offline,
we are trying to save the data.
That simple.
That has nothing to do
with the PWA platform.
That's just the web.
You can use index TV, or
local storage, to save the data
In my case, I will just use local storage.
It's actually pretty simple.
I'm going to app.js.
And first, every time we need
to save the data, that is for
example here, this is when we are pushing
a new note, we can call save.
And also, when we are deleting,
we can call save as well.
That save function does not exist, so
we need to actually create that one.
Function save,
by going to take local storage.
We're going to set an item,
this will create a new entry.
With one particular key,
we can call this notes.
And we can only store on a string.
So we need to astringify our
array of notes into JSON format.
So actually, it's going to be string.
Do you see how we save?
And then, when the page loads
in our DOM content loaded event,
before rendering a note,
I can check if I have some save notes.
And then, I will retrieve them.
So, that's easy as well.
I will check if in the local storage,
we have something for the item notes.
And if we do,
we are going to save in our collection
JSON.parse of local storage,
get item notes.
So now, let's go back to Chrome and
see if it now works completely offline.
We can refresh or reload.
Right click reload to
get the latest version.
And let's see.
If it's saving.
If I click and reload,
you can see it's not.
And you say, what's going on?
Well, I am not using dev tools here.
So, which means, the reload system
that reloads the ServiceWorker,
it's not actually working.
And I didn't change
the ServiceWorker file.
So, now that I have installed a version,
I always have the old version.
So I always have the old
version of app.js.
That's my problem.
So how can I actually do this?
How can I force an update?
Well, we can see that cache
first has some limitations.
So, we have a problem,
like when you drop the these app.js.
Let me show you the same
with another example.
We can change one color.
For example, instead of the title back,
we can change these to red, okay?
So, I'm changing that color to red, and
I'm coming here right click Reload,
it's all red.
Right click Reload, it's not red, why?
Because I'm using
the cached version always.
So, we have a problem.
Can I shift Reload?
Well, not actually from the PWA.
If I'm in the browser,
I can do Shift Reload.
In fact, let's do that.
Let's close the PWA, and
open this in the browser.
I can close that,
where I can use the menu opening Chrome.
And now we are back into Chrome.
Again, I refresh nothing happens.
I shift refresh, and I see red.
Because now,
I'm bypassing the service worker, and
I'm going directly to the server.
But if I go back and refresh normally,
I'm back in the old version.
So we have a problem, okay?
So we shift reload,
this will probably save the data.
Shift reload, it works.
I'm shift reloading,
I still have the data.
But if I reload normally,
I don't have the data.
So, it's like we have two versions
of the app running at the same time.
So that's because,
cache first it's actually limited.
And we need another way to update the app.
One simple way that you have is that,
you can go to a ServiceWorker, okay?
And then change something,
such as one space.
Doesn't make any sense.
More than changing a space, you can change
a character, such as the version number.
So, every time there is a change in
one bite, because the browser is doing
the byte by byte comparison in the
ServiceWorker, it will trigger an update.
The parameters of the update will
actually install the assets again.
Okay, so let's say,
I'm coming here and going to reload.
I may still do in the old version, but
if I reload again without shift normal
reload, I'm getting the new version.
And now,
I will always have the new version.
Let's do that again.
If we don't like that red, and we wanna go
back to the previous color, we go back.
We save the file.
And we also go and change the version
of a ServiceWorker, or a timestamp, or
any character.
So now, if I go back to Chrome,
I reload twice, and
I'm getting the new version.
Okay, so this is one solution
to the update problem.
If every time you make a change
in one asset, you go and
update something in the service worker,
it can be a comment,
then the user will actually
get the whole package again.
That's one way, and
now everything works offline.
Even deleting data, or saving new notes.
Another solution is to
change the algorithm.
If you look at the snippets that
we have here, in this case,
it goes to the network.
And only if that operation fails,
it goes to the cache.
But on network first, we also have
the problem of updating the assets,
because we are not updating the assets.
So when I show you the other one, that is
like larger, so I'm going to copy this.
And we can replace the fetch.
Or I can comment this fetch,
and just replace with this.
This is called stale while revaluate.
Let's first analyze the code,
and then we see it in action.
It's gonna respond with cache is much.
So, it's actually similar
to the cache first.
Okay, so it goes to the cache,
and see if the request is there.
Then, it will return that cached response.
In fact, if you want,
we can change the name here too.
So it's going to be more clear.
So it's going to return the cache respond.
And there is an order here.
So if it's undefined, so
if we do not have a cache respond,
I'm returning with a fetch.
So it looks similar to cache first,
with one particular addition.
We are always going to the network,
even if it's in the cache.
So, here's the deal.
You're asking me for a PNG,
so I go to the cache, okay?
And no matter the result, I'm also going
to the network to bring that PNG file.
If I do have that file in the cache,
I will give you the cache file.
But I'm also going to the network, I'm
bringing that PNG from the network, and
I'm updating the cache.
Okay, so this is what this code is doing.
It's updating the cache always.
Every time you request a file, it returns
the file from the cache if it's there.
But it's updating the file
in the background.
So, next time someone is requesting that
file, it will be an updated version.
Does it make sense?
Let's see it in action.
So, first because I have changed
a ServiceWorker, it's a good idea to
maybe open the Service Workers panel,
and check that we have updated reload.
I'm going to refresh so I know for
sure that I'm in the latest
version of the Service Worker.
So now, I'm going to untick update and
reload.
So now, I'm a normal user, okay?
So I'm going to change one CSS.
So for example,
if we wanna change this color with pink.
Now going back here,
what I knew is to get the pink.
So I'm going to reload ones,
I'm gonna stealing yellow, and
then I'm finally getting the new color.
So with the stale while revaluate,
you can change assets individually.
And then, you don't need to
change the service worker.
So, I don't need to go and
change one bit the ServiceWorker.
It is still a double reload,
which is expectable.
Why?
Think about the native app,
or native apps,
you are always having an old version
because it's installed in your device.
So here, we have the same idea.
So, we are always loading
the version that we have.
Then in the background,
we can realize there is a new version and
update the assets.
This can get more complicated
with your own algorithm.
And some libraries, such as workbooks,
will actually help you in
improving this user experience.
But before moving on,
let's go back to our original color.
And now we are here.
So, when we are serving file from
the cache, we have different strategies.
Cache first, network first,
or stale while revalidate.
And we can do a mix.
It's up to you, it's up to your own
algorithm, and also it can defer per URL.
Updating the resources,
it's actually a challenge.
Because files are served in the client,
and
updating files in the server won't trigger
any automatic change in the client.
So we need to define, and code,
and update algorithm, okay?
So, if you have a build process,
such as you're doing a react application,
sometimes we hash resources.
Or we version resources, so
we can create the manifest file
separated from your web manifest and
assets manifest that can define all
the assets with a version number.
And then, the service worker can
actually see and compare the assets,
and let's say, upgrade all
the assets that are old in the cash.
Developer is in full control of how to
cache and serve the resources of a PWA.
And also, how to manage API calls.
Because if you want,
you can also cache API calls.
Or you can synthesize responses.
So, you can have some Graph QL API, but
completely client signed over IndexDB.
She has an example.
Updating the app doesn't require full
reinstallation as the native apps.
We can just replace the updated files
silently, or with a user's notification.
And that's actually one of the challenges
of PWA development, how to do that.
To synthesize the service worker solution,
before actually seeing
our app installed on android,
let's talk about the life cycle again.
So, the first time you load a PWA,
you don't have a ServiceWorker.
The ServiceWorker is then passed,
installed, and it's waiting.
Waiting for what?
You will see in a minute.
After waiting, it goes to activated, and
is now in full control of
the origins of the scope.
And then, it's not executing code,
it's waiting for an event.
It can be a fetch, a push message, or
a message that is received by a client.
In that case,
the Service Worker goes to running.
So now, it's running.
And after some seconds of inactivity,
but in Chromium is 40.
On Safari it's less than 40, around 15.
It goes against your Idle.
And at one point,
it can be stopped or terminated.
And it can go back to running
automatically when another event happens.
That's how it works.
And every time the service worker appears
again, it might not be the same instance.
So we don't wanna use, for example, global
variables in the service workers scope.
Because maybe after 40 seconds,
they are gone.
Yeah, maybe you're back,
but it's a new instance.
So nothing is the same.
So, the question has to do that, if we
have any ability to increase the idle time
of a service worker, the answer is no.
In fact, we don't even know that
time we are not in control of that.
The Service Worker is in control.
And even, when we are asking
the Service Worker to wait for
us with wait until, the browser
can always kill us at any time.
It can kill our process if the browser
thinks that we are doing something wrong
with the CPU, for example.
Remember that we don't
need users permission for
installing a Service Worker.
So that's why the browser
is actually really careful
about the permission
that it's granting us.